docs/reference/glossary.md, before:

# Kernel glossary

This page is a running list of terminology that is frequently used when talking
about kernels.

````{glossary}
:sorted:


ABI
  Application Binary Interface, or ABI defines a stable interface between user space
  applications and the kernel. It ensures that the binaries of applications compiled
  for one version of the kernel remain compatible with subsequent versions, as long as the
  ABI remains unchanged.

DKMS
  Dynamic Kernel Module Support, or DKMS is a framework that provides support
  for installing supplementary versions of kernel modules in a simplified manner.
  See the [dkms manpages] for more information.

edge kernel
  An edge kernel is the next HWE kernel still in development with features
  and/or updates that will be backported from the latest Ubuntu release (until
  the next LTS).

HWE
  Hardware enablement, or HWE kernels are Ubuntu kernels based on newer upstream
  kernel versions (compared to the Ubuntu LTS GA release) that typically
  contain newer features, improved performance and security, and support for
  newer classes of hardware.
  Newer kernels are usually shipped with interim and LTS releases, and will
  then be enabled on the latest Ubuntu LTS release as the HWE kernel.
  This provides an easier upgrade path for existing LTS users, and enables
  new deployments to immediately benefit from the newer kernel version.

  See {doc}`/reference/hwe-kernels` for more information.

linux-meta
  Refers to a set of meta-packages in Linux distributions like Ubuntu. These
  meta-packages do not contain the kernel binaries or source code themselves but
  instead define dependencies that point  
  to the latest kernel packages.
  By installing a linux-meta package (e.g. linux-generic), users can ensure they
  always receive the latest version of a specific kernel series through updates.
  In the kernel development and {term}`SRU` life cycle, linux-meta acts as a
  bridge between the release of new kernel versions and the package manager.
  When a new kernel version is released and marked stable, the linux-meta
  package is updated to reference the new version, allowing automatic upgrades.  

linux-signed 
  Refers to kernel packages that are cryptographically signed to ensure their
  integrity and authenticity.
  These signatures are crucial for secure boot environments, as they enable the  
  system firmware to verify that the kernel has not been tampered with and is
  from a trusted source.
  In the kernel {term}`SRU` life cycle, linux-signed is created after the
  corresponding unsigned kernel (e.g. linux-image-unsigned-6.8.0-50-generic) has
  been built. The signing process is part of the release pipeline, ensuring
  compliance with secure boot requirements and enhancing security in the kernel
  deployment process. This package works in tandem with the linux-meta package
  to deliver signed kernel updates.

OEM kernel
  ```{include} /reuse/oem-kernels.txt
  :start-after: overview-oem-kernel-start
  :end-before: overview-oem-kernel-end
  ```

  See {doc}`/reference/oem-kernels` for more information.

SRU
  Stands for Stable Release Update, a process in distributions like Ubuntu used to provide important 
  updates to packages, including kernel packages, after the release of a stable version. SRUs deliver 
  fixes for critical bugs, security vulnerabilities, and hardware enablement while ensuring the stability 
  of the system.
````

[dkms manpages]: https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/noble/en/man8/dkms.8.html

Commit message:

doc(reference/glossary): Add entry for SAUCE patches (#54)
Signed-off-by: Yo-Jung (Leo) Lin <leo.lin@canonical.com>

docs/reference/glossary.md, after:

# Kernel glossary

This page is a running list of terminology that is frequently used when talking
about kernels.

````{glossary}
:sorted:


ABI
  Application Binary Interface, or ABI defines a stable interface between user space
  applications and the kernel. It ensures that the binaries of applications compiled
  for one version of the kernel remain compatible with subsequent versions, as long as the
  ABI remains unchanged.

DKMS
  Dynamic Kernel Module Support, or DKMS is a framework that provides support
  for installing supplementary versions of kernel modules in a simplified manner.
  See the [dkms manpages] for more information.

edge kernel
  An edge kernel is the next HWE kernel still in development with features
  and/or updates that will be backported from the latest Ubuntu release (until
  the next LTS).

HWE
  Hardware enablement, or HWE kernels are Ubuntu kernels based on newer upstream
  kernel versions (compared to the Ubuntu LTS GA release) that typically
  contain newer features, improved performance and security, and support for
  newer classes of hardware.
  Newer kernels are usually shipped with interim and LTS releases, and will
  then be enabled on the latest Ubuntu LTS release as the HWE kernel.
  This provides an easier upgrade path for existing LTS users, and enables
  new deployments to immediately benefit from the newer kernel version.

  See {doc}`/reference/hwe-kernels` for more information.

linux-meta
  Refers to a set of meta-packages in Linux distributions like Ubuntu. These
  meta-packages do not contain the kernel binaries or source code themselves but
  instead define dependencies that point  
  to the latest kernel packages.
  By installing a linux-meta package (e.g. linux-generic), users can ensure they
  always receive the latest version of a specific kernel series through updates.
  In the kernel development and {term}`SRU` life cycle, linux-meta acts as a
  bridge between the release of new kernel versions and the package manager.
  When a new kernel version is released and marked stable, the linux-meta
  package is updated to reference the new version, allowing automatic upgrades.  

linux-signed 
  Refers to kernel packages that are cryptographically signed to ensure their
  integrity and authenticity.
  These signatures are crucial for secure boot environments, as they enable the  
  system firmware to verify that the kernel has not been tampered with and is
  from a trusted source.
  In the kernel {term}`SRU` life cycle, linux-signed is created after the
  corresponding unsigned kernel (e.g. linux-image-unsigned-6.8.0-50-generic) has
  been built. The signing process is part of the release pipeline, ensuring
  compliance with secure boot requirements and enhancing security in the kernel
  deployment process. This package works in tandem with the linux-meta package
  to deliver signed kernel updates.

OEM kernel
  ```{include} /reuse/oem-kernels.txt
  :start-after: overview-oem-kernel-start
  :end-before: overview-oem-kernel-end
  ```

  See {doc}`/reference/oem-kernels` for more information.

SAUCE
  A SAUCE patch is a patch not included in Linus Torvalds' tree or linux-next, either because it hasn't
  been pulled in, or because it is obtained from other non-upstream sources and is unlikely to be upstreamed.

  See {doc}`/reference/patch-acceptance-criteria` for more information.

SRU
  Stands for Stable Release Update, a process in distributions like Ubuntu used to provide important 
  updates to packages, including kernel packages, after the release of a stable version. SRUs deliver 
  fixes for critical bugs, security vulnerabilities, and hardware enablement while ensuring the stability 
  of the system.
````

[dkms manpages]: https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/noble/en/man8/dkms.8.html
